Have you ever heard a brother pray to Jehovah, and it just sort of touches your heart and the words he uses and his mannerisms and so forth?
And you may say to yourself, well, I wish I could talk to Jehovah like that.
Well, maybe the way you talk to Jehovah is not like that.
You may not have all those words to use and so forth.
Due to a lack of education, it comes to the English language and so forth.
But what you do have is in your heart, and when you pour your heart out to Jehovah, he hears you.
And he blesses you just like he would bless the one who has all the words and the good mannerisms and so forth.
So don't worry about it. Just pray to Jehovah from your heart.
It's not the words that he's that interested in is what comes out of the heart.
So no doubt you are just as close to Jehovah as that one that you admire.
And there's certainly nothing wrong with the marrying a brother who has that ability or sister, but don't worry about it.
That is not the main thing that Jehovah looks at.
Your approach has to come from the heart.
And if it does, it pleases Jehovah.
Notice something here in the Bible in 1 Samuel, chapter 16, verse 7.
He says, but Jehovah said to Samuel,
do not pay attention to his appearance or how tall he is for I have rejected him, for the way man sees is not the way God sees.
Because mere man sees what appears to the eyes, but Jehovah sees what is in, sees into the heart.
That's a beautiful scripture.
And it is one that humbles us before Jehovah.
We're glad that he looks at our heart and we certainly want him to do that.
I'd like to tell you about something.
It had to do with a brother and older brother years ago and one of the circuits I had.
And we were at the dinner table. His wife was an inner truth, but she prepared a fine meal for us.
He was a fine brother, older in the congregation.
And it got to, around to what did you do before you got to truth?
What kind of work did you do and so forth?
And he said, I was a professional brother who prayed.
He says, the preachers in our town hired me to go to their churches on Sunday and pray.
He says, I had the ability to use right words and my deep voice and mannerism just calls them to reach deep into their billfuls and pocketbooks and give money.
So afterwards, the preachers would divvy it up and pay me off.
So I made quite a bit of money that way, professional prayer.
Well, of course, he got the truth and he learned that that business was no good.
But he still could pray and reach the heart.
And that's what prayer is all about, isn't it?
Our text today deals with drawing close to Jehovah.
And one of the main ways that we draw close to Jehovah is through prayer.
Whether we're on our knees or standing there, lying down that matters not.
Jehovah is still here.
Silent prayers, he hears. We can pray as we're driving the automobile, doing anything else.
And he hears our prayers if they come out of the heart.
And of course, we have to pray in the right way.
Years ago, we had a program out in the travel work called New Things Learned.
Now, we changed that later on to continue in the things learned.
But at this particular time, it was New Things Learned.
And I was a servant over here, so I had the program on Saturday evening.
New Things Learned.
One of my questions was, when you pray to Jehovah,
do you go through Jesus at the beginning, or during your prayer, or at the end, or doesn't matter?
Well, we've got all kinds of answers. I tell you the truth.
You wouldn't believe it if you were there, all kinds of answers.
So anyway, we finally gave them the correct answer and so forth.
At the end of the meeting, I called on an older brother, very fine brother, in the truth, to pray.
And he prayed to Jesus.
I said, Brother, why did you pray to Jesus?
He says, I didn't know who to pray to. I was so confused.
So Gloria, my wife said, please don't use that on New Things Learned anymore.
But that was truly a new thing learned. We just hope you unlearned congregation.
Anyway, we feel that that prayer was heard by Jehovah.
He takes in a consideration who we are, what we have to give, how we can do it, and so forth.
But we wouldn't practice a thing like that. We wouldn't deliberately ignore Him and pray to Jesus, that's for sure.
But prayer is necessary.
We're really not qualified to judge whether prayers of our brothers are received favorably by Jehovah or not.
Some words come from the brain and out of the mouth, while others come from the heart and out of the mouth.
We ask ourselves, am I speaking to Jehovah from my heart or only from my brain?
When we speak to Jehovah, we want to use truthful words that come from the heart.
Words season with salt the Bible tells us.
Gracious words that are in good taste, respectful and wholesome.
Job's short prayer came from the heart and Job chapter 1 verse 21.
Just a real short prayer. But did you overheard it?
And of course, he was with Job all the way.
If he hadn't been with Job, Job would have had a hard time when he was in the end.
But here's his prayer. He says, naked I came out of my mother's womb and naked I will return.
Job has given and Job has taken away.
Let the name of Job continue to be praised.
Beautiful, isn't it? Solomon also gave a beautiful prayer in 1 Kings 3, 6 through 10.
We won't read that. It's lengthy.
When we need help, talk to Job over from your heart, like Ace did.
At the very end, when Ace asked Jehovah to help him because they had a million people against their warriors,
and he had a small group, would Jehovah bless that prayer?
Ace had drew close to Jehovah and Jehovah drew close to Ace.
So much so that he defeated the Ethiopians before Ace and before Judah and the Ethiopians fled.
Why will Ace drew close to Jehovah? That's why.
And of course, we want to draw close to Jehovah.
Another way that we draw close to Jehovah is through meditation.
We want to think about what we pray.
They say a sheep has four compartments in the stomach,
so it takes a long time, sometimes two days, or longer, to digest his food.
Well, some things that we take into are hard to digest.
It takes a while, and we digest it basically through meditation.
We have to think about it over and over again.
Sometimes we even have to ask others, how do you feel about this?
How did you understand it?
What did it do for you and so forth?
And they'll help us.
So prayer and meditation, these are the two key things that we will want to think about.
As we endeavor to draw close to Jehovah.